Aka Man in the middle attack

Sits in the middle b/w 2 stations and is able to intercept and/or change the info being transmitted across the network

The attack can occur without anyone knowing that someone is sitting in the middle of the conversation.

 The original stream of info will be intercepted by the attacker and then passed on later to the destination.
# ARP poisoning

Address Resolution Protocol poisoning

On-path attack on the local IP subnet.

ARP has no security 

Devices recieve and modify ARP tables without any authentication or encryption. Allows the attacker to send ARPs to devices and the devices would believe they are coming from a legit source

# How ARP normally works

when a device first connects to a network, it only has the ip adr of the router and not the MAC addr

1. Device asks "who is 192.132.1.1"? and the expectation is that 192.132.1.1 will return a response with its MAC addr

2. The router will see the IP addr req and send back its MAC addr. Devices without the same IP addr will ignore the req

3. The device that receives the MAC addr will then store it on its local ARP cache, something like
		192.132.1.1 = 00:09:5b:d4:bb:fe

4. The machine doesn't have to go through the ARP process every time it needs to comm with the router now

# How it works in ARP poisoning

1. The attacker is on the network
2. The attacker sends an ARP resp message "I am 192.132.1.1" along with their MAC addr without being asked and the ARP cache updates
3. The attacker then poisons the router with using the victim's IP addr this time


// Not an easy attack to execute since the attacker cannot always be on the same network

# On-path browser attack

Aka Man in the Browser attack

What if the attacker was on the SAME computer as the victim? 

Malware/trojan does all of the proxy work, and the relaying is automated instead of being performed by a person. 

This has HUGE advantages for the attackers:

1. Relatively easy to proxy encrypted traffic
2. Everything looks normal to the victim

Being on the same COMPUTER AS THE VICTIM ITSELF, means that the encryption is rendered useless, as the attacker is privy to the raw, unencrypted data. 

Ex: Malware sits in the background waits for the victim to log into their bank account using the 
browser. Then steals the info to drain the account. Since the bank trusts your browser session and IP addr.




