
> A denial of service is when an attacker forces a service to fail

A DoS might also be a smokescreen for another attack, like a DNS spoofing attack.

Also, a DoS doesn't have to be complicated. An attacker simply turning electricity off in the premises where the server is, is also a very effective DoS.

# Friendly DoS

Sometimes DoS is caused due to non-malicious mistakes on the org's part.

Ex:

1. Plugging the wrong cables into the wrong switch, causing a loop which brings down the network. // Very effective, I tried it myself, was really fun
2. On limited bandwidth connections, one person using too much bandwidth brings it down for the other users, effectively a DoS.
3. Physical issues causing systems to shut down


# DDoS

Distributed Denial of Service

An army of machines is used to bring down services.

# DDoS Amplification

Turns a small DDoS into a big attack.

Involves reflecting a protocol from one service onto the victim's machine
NTP/ICMP/DNS 

### DNS amplification DDoS

//the IP address of the actual web server is spoofed by the botnet machines

1. Attacker sends message to botnet machines to query the DNS resolvers
2. A small DNS query (20-30 bytes in length) often generates HUGE responses(1300 bytes) from the server.
3. All these huge responses from all the DNS resolver servers are then sent to the Actual web server, bringing the service down


# Application DoS

A vulnerable application is exploited to use all of the system's resources and crash it. 

Ex: 42 kB Zip Bomb.

# Operational Technology (OT) DDoS

OT is the hardware and software used for industrial / public / large scale equipment /functions.
Traffic lights, power grids, manufacturing plants.

Much more consequential than a web server failing.

Completely different security approach for these things.

