
# MAC Address

In networking, it is the Media Access Control Address of a network card. 
Often referred to as the physical address of the card, because every single card has a different MAC addr

it is 48 bits / 6 bytes long

The first 3 bytes are the OUI --> Organisationally Unique Identifier 
//gives the info about the manufacturer of the network card

The last 3 bytes --> Serial Number (Network Interface controller specific)

example:

		8c:2d:aa:4b:98:a7


# LAN switching

Switches on a LAN are designed to work at this MAC addr level

The switch maintains a list of all the MAC addr connected to it, so that it knows where to send frames/ packets when it receives them. These lists age out periodically, often in 5 minutes.

The switch maintains a Loop free environment using STP (Spanning Tree Protocol)


# How a Switch Maintains its MAC Addr Table

1. Switches examine incoming traffic and make a note of the SOURCE MAC Addr
2. The switch adds unknown MAC addr to the MAC addr table
3. Sets the output interface to the received interface


# MAC flooding

Since there is a limited max number of MAC addr that can be held in the table, MAC flooding attacks work.

The attacker starts sending traffic with a different source MAC addr so as to overwhelm the table.

This forces OUT the legitimate MAC addr from the table

Eventually the table fills up and the switch starts flooding traffic to all interfaces

This turns a switch into a hub.

This is a great opportunity for the attacker to capture network traffic.

Flood Guard features are implemented in newer switches , which prevent one interface from sending multiple MAC addr in a short period of time.

# MAC cloning/ MAC spoofing

Attacker changes the MAC addr of their device to match of a legitimate device that is ON the network or has RECENTLY LEFT the network.

Helps to circumvent wireless / wired MAC filters by being in the allowed list.

Creates a DoS for the legitimate MAC

Easily manipulated through software, usually a device driver option to spoof the MAC addr

Fortunately , many switches have features to block MAC addr cloning, however this attack still works a surprising number of times.






