# DNS Poisoning

> Modify the DNS server

//requires some advanced hacking skills to pull this off

Some ways to Poison DNS is:

1. Modify the Client Host file 

	//the host file in a computer takes precedence over anything else, so it doesn't matter what is configured in the DNS serv, the computer follows what is present in  the hosts files

2. Send a fake resp to a valid DNS req, by sitting on-path 

3. Modify the DNS info on the legitimate DNS server itself


# Domain Hijacking

Get access to the Domain registration account (determines the DNS names and DNS IP addr)
This gives them control on where the traffic flows without touching the actual servers

Many ways to get into the account:
1. Brute force
2. phishing
3. gain access to the email addr that is associated with the account etc


# URL hijacking

Makes money from the user's oversight/mistakes. Creating a URL that is close enough to the real name.

Ex: Gooogol.com

Might have an ad on another website, posing as the legit website and then redirecting the traffic to the clone.

Often used as a phishing site.

### Types of URL hijacking

1. typosquatting
2. typing error
3. brandjacking
4. different , but close enough phrases
5. Different Top Level domain. (.org instead of the legit website's .com)

# Domain Reputation

Bad reputation can cause email delivery failure.

Can also be flagged and blocked by browsers, since they can be indexed as sites with malware, and this , even if removed quickly, still tarnishes the org's reputation.

Check regularly for typosquatting and report them / take action against them.

