
Do not use applications that store passwords as plaintext in unencrypted, plain text formats.

# Hashing a password

Hashes represent data as a fixed-length string of text. The fixed length is the fingerprint of a hash

Hashes are not duplicated.

Hashes are cryptographic algorithms that cannot be used reversed back using the hash. Hashes can only be compared. So, if an attacker even has access to a hash, they cannot recover the password back from it using any decryption.

-->SHA-256 is a common alg


# Types of password attacks
### Spraying Attack

Avoids getting restricted due to too many attempts by using hashes of common passwords, using a few of them at a time and then move on to the next account.

The advantage in such attacks is that there is no alarm raised/ no detection if they stay within the password try limit, and since they attack multiple accounts without specificity in mind, SOMEONE somewhere matches the password and the attacker's objective is completed.

### Brute Force

Every single combination is tried until the hash matches.

Very inefficient attack and a strong hashing algorithm can make this attack practically useless.

Almost useless on most Online apps

More common on offline files/machines.

### Dictionary Attacks

Common words are taken from the dictionary/wordlists and hashed and compared.

Dragon case and other similar combinations can also be considered.

Distributed cracking  using botnets and GPU cracking is common.


# Other tools and techniques

### Rainbow Tables

Database that contains an optimised, prebuilt set of hashes (however these are very specific)

Saves time and storage. Contains pre-calculated hash chains.

Significant speed increase and time decrease.

Problems/Challenges with Rainbow Tables
		Need different tables for different hashing methods that are used in different apps.
		Ex: Windows hashing is different from mySQL hashing



### Salting

Adding random data to passwords while hashing, for amplified security.

This also helps to have different hashes  for the same passwords by 2 different users

Render rainbow tables useless.

The attacker needs to know exactly how the salting algorithm has been implemented.

# Breaches

Collection #1 released in January2019.

Collection of breached email addresses and passwords.


[haveibeenpwned.com]() --> legitimate and well-trusted service that can be used to check if your account has been compromised, by checking for it in breach databases.


