
# Virus

A virus is malware that can reproduce itself.

However, it NEEDS  the user to run the code, to initialise  it. (trigger)

Virus needs a human being  to start the process(of infection and subsequent auto-replication) on each machine/network it infects. 

# Worms

This malware is different from viruses in that it does NOT require humans for it to spread and infect systems on a network.

Can jump from machine to machine entirely on its own.


// Some viruses can be extremely dangerous and some can be annoying.

# Types of Virus

1.  Program Virus
		Part of an application
2. Boot Sector Virus
		Relatively rare these days
		Exists in the boot sector of the storage device
		the virus starts with the booting of the OS
3. Script viruses
		OS script or browser script
4. Macro Virus
		Associated with Microsoft apps, wherein programs called Macros can be run to help automate tasks and make usage easier
5. File-less virus
		Never saves itself as a file
		Everything is run in the RAM
		This often helps to avoid detection as there is no file for the antivirus to scan


### File less virus 

user clicks on malicious link --> website exploits a Flash/Java/Windows vuln  --> Launches powershell and downloads payloads in RAM --> runs powershell scripts and executables in memory and does its malicious activity --> Adds itself to an auto-start registry

# Worms

Uses the network as a transmission medium

Self-propagate and spread extremely quickly.

Firewalls and IDS/IPS can stop the worm, but this requires that the existence of the worm is known, and a detection signature is developed. However, this is only prevention, and if the worm is already inside the system, this doesn't help much.

#### wannacry worm

Wannacry worm was an example. Used EternalBlue exploit
SMB v1 vuln was used

Eternal blue installed DoublePulsar backdoor.
DoublePulsar downloaded and ran Wannacry
Which then ran crypto-malware  and propagated itself


