## What is access control?

Access control is the application of constraints on who or what is authorized to perform actions or access resources. In the context of web applications, access control is dependent on authentication and session management:

- **Authentication** confirms that the user is who they say they are.
- **Session management** identifies which subsequent HTTP requests are being made by that same user.
- **Access control** determines whether the user is allowed to carry out the action that they are attempting to perform.
# Unprotected Functionality

A user maybe able to attempt vertical privilege esc by browsing to the relevant url.

`www.examplesite.com/admin`

In some cases administrative URL maybe disclosed in other locations; like 

`www.examplesite.com/robots.txt`

In some cases, sensitive functionality is concealed by giving it a less predictable URL. This is an example of so-called "security by obscurity".

However, even if the admin panel url is obfuscated, the application might still leak the URL to users. The URL might be disclosed in JavaScript that constructs the user interface based on the user's role.

> <script> var isAdmin = false; if (isAdmin) { ... var adminPanelTag = document.createElement('a'); adminPanelTag.setAttribute('https://insecure-website.com/administrator-panel-yb556'); adminPanelTag.innerText = 'Admin panel'; ... } </script>


# Parameter Based Access Control Methods

Some applications determine the user's access rights or role at login, and then store this information in a user-controllable location. This could be:

- A hidden field.
- A cookie.
- A preset query string parameter.

The application makes access control decisions based on the submitted value. For example:

`https://insecure-website.com/login/home.jsp?admin=true` `
`https://insecure-website.com/login/home.jsp?role=1`

This approach is insecure because a user can modify the value and access functionality they're not authorized to, such as administrative functions.

# Horizontal Privilege Esc

If an attacker modifies the `id` parameter value to that of another user, they might gain access to another user's account page, and the associated data and functions.

> This is an example of an insecure direct object reference (IDOR) vulnerability. This type of vulnerability arises where user-controller parameter values are used to access resources or functions directly.

In some applications, the exploitable parameter does not have a predictable value. For example, instead of an incrementing number, an application might use globally unique identifiers (GUIDs) to identify users. This may prevent an attacker from guessing or predicting another user's identifier. 

##### However, the GUIDs belonging to other users might be disclosed elsewhere in the application where users are referenced, such as user messages or reviews. 

# Horizontal to vertical privilege escalation

If the target user is an application administrator, then the attacker will gain access to an administrative account page. This page might disclose the administrator's password or provide a means of changing it, or might provide direct access to privileged functionality.


