Authentication vulnerabilities can allow attackers to gain access to sensitive data and functionality. They also expose additional attack surface for further exploits. For this reason, it's important to learn how to identify and exploit authentication vulnerabilities, and how to bypass common protection measures.

#### Difference b/w authentication and authorisation
Authentication is the process of verifying that a user is who they claim to be. Authorization involves verifying whether a user is allowed to do something.

Once a user is *authenticated* their permissions are determined by their *authorization*.

# Brute Force Attacks

Brute-forcing is not always just a case of making completely random guesses at usernames and passwords. By also using basic logic or publicly available knowledge, attackers can fine-tune brute-force attacks to make much more educated guesses. This considerably increases the efficiency of such attacks. Websites that rely on password-based login as their sole method of authenticating users can be highly vulnerable if they do not implement sufficient brute-force protection.


## Brute-forcing usernames

Usernames are especially easy to guess if they conform to a recognizable pattern, such as an email address. For example, it is very common to see business logins in the format `firstname.lastname@somecompany.com`. However, even if there is no obvious pattern, sometimes even high-privileged accounts are created using predictable usernames, such as `admin` or `administrator`.

During auditing, check whether the website discloses potential usernames publicly. For example, are you able to access user profiles without logging in? Even if the actual content of the profiles is hidden, the name used in the profile is sometimes the same as the login username. You should also check HTTP responses to see if any email addresses are disclosed. Occasionally, responses contain email addresses of high-privileged users, such as administrators or IT support.

# Brute-forcing Passwords

While some organisations/websites/services, have rules for creation of high entropy passwords, which are extremely hard for computers to crack, there is often a human vuln aspect to it, that can be exploited.

Rather than creating a strong password with a random combination of characters, users often take a password that they can remember and try to crowbar it into fitting the password policy. For example, if `mypassword` is not allowed, users may try something like `Mypassword1!` or `Myp4$$w0rd` instead.

This knowledge of likely credentials and predictable patterns means that brute-force attacks can often be much more sophisticated, and therefore effective, than simply iterating through every possible combination of characters

## Username enumeration

Username enumeration is when an attacker is able to observe changes in the website's behaviour in order to identify whether a given username is valid. 
Ex: If the passwords is wrong but the username is valid, the website might return the prompt : "Wrong password".
This confirms the existence of the username. Now it becomes only a matter of breaking the password.

## Bypassing two-factor authentication

At times, the implementation of two-factor authentication is flawed to the point where it can be bypassed entirely.

>If the user is first prompted to enter a password, and then prompted to enter a verification code on a separate page, the user is effectively in a "logged in" state before they have entered the verification code. 

In this case, it is worth testing to see if you can directly skip to "logged-in only" pages after completing the first authentication step. Occasionally, you will find that a website doesn't actually check whether or not you completed the second step before loading the page.

