File upload vulnerabilities are when a web server allows users to upload files to its filesystem without sufficiently validating things like their name, type, contents, or size. Failing to properly enforce restrictions on these could mean that even a basic image upload function can be used to upload arbitrary and potentially dangerous files instead. This could even include server-side script files that enable remote code execution.

## Exploiting unrestricted file uploads to deploy a web shell

From a security perspective, the worst possible scenario is when a website allows you to upload server-side scripts, such as PHP, Java, or Python files, and is also configured to execute them as code. This makes it trivial to create your own web shell on the server.

>  Web shell
	A web shell is a malicious script that enables an attacker to execute arbitrary commands on a remote web server simply by sending HTTP requests to the right endpoint

For example, the following PHP one-liner could be used to read arbitrary files from the server's filesystem:

`<?php echo file_get_contents('/path/to/target/file'); ?>`

A more versatile web shell may look something like this:

`<?php echo system($_GET['command']); ?>`

This script enables you to pass an arbitrary system command via a query parameter as follows:

`GET /example/exploit.php?command=id HTTP/1.1`

## Flawed file type validation

When submitting HTML forms, the browser typically sends the provided data in a `POST` request with the content type `application/x-www-form-url-encoded`. This is fine for sending simple text like your name or address. However, it isn't suitable for sending large amounts of binary data, such as an entire image file or a PDF document. In this case, the content type `multipart/form-data` is preferred.

One way that websites may attempt to validate file uploads is to check that this input-specific `Content-Type` header matches an expected MIME type. If the server is only expecting image files, for example, it may only allow types like `image/jpeg` and `image/png`. Problems can arise when the value of this header is implicitly trusted by the server.

# Common workflow

Change header type in the repeater POST req, and upload the file as normal, then access it using the GET method

