
For most organisations there will always be a third party using their service/ aiding in their operations.

It is wise to always assume the worst and prepare for a sec breach with these third parties as entry points. Human errors remain the biggest issue, and because it is not possible to always enforce IT best practices, it becomes all the more important to design our systems in a way that human error can be minimised.

Physical Security goes hand in hand with Cybersecurity. //All security is important.

# System Integration Risk

If the third party is handling the hosting services / Maybe the third party is doing dev work. In such cases, they will need more access than normal (physical/digital).

Especially with physical access, it'd be much easier for them to bypass all the firewall systems and other digital measures. 

System integration risks are therefore, quite significant.

## Lack of Vendor Support

The vendors are the only ones who can fix their product. It is therefore essential to have quality vendors that actively try to find issues in their products and mitigate them.

Ex: Trane Comfortlink Thermostat 2014

## Supply Chain Risk

Since we cannot control *every* step of the manufacturing process, we must have even more stringent checks for the authenticity of the products and maintaining on site security.

Ex: People Ordering CISCO switches but getting counterfeit ones.

# Outsourced Code Development

1. Taking care of the Code Base's Access
2. Development systems should be isolated (Dev teams , especially outsourced ones, should not have access to the production side)
3. Have routine security check ups of the code.

# Data Storage

Consider the Type of data being stored and make sure that the proper security measures are taken. 

Storage at third party location may need encryption for even the simplest things. Also, for transmission in and out of the location (preferably an encrypted channel).



