Security Information and Event Management

We need a SIEM device to manage the immense amount of info collected from Log files/ sec events, etc. It is designed to collect info from anything on the network, that can generate any type of real time info that can tell us about the system and what is happening on the network in the moment.

SIEM is commonly used as a central repository. Log aggregation and  Long term analysis.

Can also be used for Data correlation from varied and diverse sources.

Also, irreplaceable for forensic analysis. 

## Syslog

Different OS systems work differently. As a result, there can be discrepancies in the way the info is presented.  Therefore, there needs to be a standard way for Message Logging - which is Syslog.

Usually there exists a Syslog compatible collector that is a part of the SIEM itself.

SIEMs have a LOT of storage capacity, due to the vast amount of data being generated.


# Some Types of Info that would be valuable to store in a SIEM


#### Data Inputs
1. Server auth attempts
2. Firewall session logs
3. Outbound comm from our network
4. Network utilizations
5. VPN  connections

#### Packet Captures
1. Raw Network Packets
2. Packets associated with critical alerts
3. Some org capture EVERYTHING

Large Orgs might have a SOC (security Operations Centre).Someone in the SOC monitors all these SIEMs, evaluates and reacts to the info/data gathered in the SIEM.

# Security Monitoring

1. Constant Info flow and automated tracking
2. Tracking the imp stats and identifying deviations
3. Sending alerts to the relevant parties of the orgs (SOC analysts, teams involved) when problems are found
4. Creating triggers to automate responses(reboot a server automatically, create a ticket etc)

> At the core of a SIEM is the Log Information


# Analysing the Data

1. Using Big Data Analytics
		Using mathematics and Algorithms to analyse extremely large sets of data and identify patterns that normally would be invisible to human beings.

2. UEBA 
		User and Entity behaviour Analytics (examines how people are using the network)
		// Useful for detection of insider threats / identification of targeted attacks.
		Catches what SIEM and DLP (data loss prevention) systems might miss. 

3.   Sentiment Analyses
		How the public/A certain group of people views the org.
		If they hate the org, they might try to hack the org


# SOAR 

Security Orchestration, Automation and Response.

Goal: To automate tedious and repetitive Sec related tasks so that they can be done efficiently at the speed of the machine.

#### Orchestration
--> Connect many different tools together
--> Modify firewalls, account management, email filters dynamically to include the results from the functioning of our automated tools.

#### Automation
Systems handle the security tasks automatically

#### Response
We can have the orchestration and Automation parts occur at any time of the day and as quickly as possible, for the security of the network.


