
## Pentest
Simulating an attack by an attacker.
Similar to vuln scanning but goes a step further by actually exploiting the vuln found.

Often a compliance mandate (contact a third party)

NIST Technical Guide to InfoSec Testing and Assessment. 
https://professormesser.link/800115

# Rules of Engagement 
Define the scope and purpose of the pentest.
everyone is made aware of the test parameters. (systems used/ time of the day, etc)

Type of the testing is predetermined as well: 
1. Physical on site sec test
2. Internal test
3. External test
4. Time of the test

The rules:
1. IP addr ranges
2. Emergency contacts
3. Handling of emergency info
4. in-scope and out-of-scope devices/ apps

# Working Knowledge

There can be many different approaches to pentests:

1. Unknown Environment / Blind Test :: Pentester is told nothing about the env and is given permission to attack
2. Known Env :: Full disclosure about the env
3. Partially known env :: especially seen w/ third party pentests

# Exploiting Vuln / Conducting the pentest

##### Try to break into the system
1. Buffer Overflows cause instability
2. Priv Esc 
// Be careful with this as this may cause loss of data / DoS. As such, there must be proper systems in place to mitigate any such damages.

#### Try different Vuln types
1. Password brute-force
2. Social Eng
3. Database injections
4. Buffer Overflows

// A good pentest brings out not just 1 vuln and exploit, but all possible vuln and exploits that it can.

# The process

1. Initial Access/ exploit
		Get into the network
2. Lateral Movement
		Moving from device to device on the inside of the network.
		The inside the network is relatively unprotected, there is strong sec on the perimeter of the  network
3. Persistence
		Create and make sure that there's a way back into the systems
		Set up a backdoor/ build user accounts/change or verify default passwords
4. The pivot
		Gain access to one system and use it as the jumping off point to any other system.
		Use a vuln system as a proxy/relay
5. Cleanup
		Leave the network in its original state
		Remove any backdoors/ binaries/ temp files added during the pentest
		Delete user accounts created during the test


