A hacker would benefit immensely from access to raw network data.

They can do it in the following ways:
1. Network tapping (needs physical access)
2. ARP poisoning
3. Malwares on the victim computer that uses legitimate processes to gather network info privy to the victim

// Though the initial gathering of info may require the attacker to be on the path b/w 2 devices, it's NOT required for the ATTACK itself

The replay attack can be done afterwards and the original user doesn't even need to be on the network at that time.

# Examples of replay attacks : 

#### Pass the Hash


Client(victim) <---------------->  Attacker(on the network)  <--------------------> Server       


During the initial auth process the client sends the username and the password hash to the server

If the Attacker captures this hash (using ARP poisoning/ redirection) and saves a copy of these creds on his device, then they can simply send the hash directly to the server next time for the access , without knowing the password.

From the server's perspective this is a legitimate req/info.

##### Prevention against Pass the hash

The devs can avoid this type of replay attacks with a salt or encryption (such as SSL/TLS) over the hashing.
Using a  session ID with the pass hash to create a unique authentication hash each time. --> This makes the hash a one time authentication process.

I encrypted data is being transmitted over a channel the attacker will not be able to decipher what the relevant hash is.(or what anything else is, for the matter)



# Browser Cookies and Session IDs

Cookies often contain 
1. Tracking
2. Personalisation
3. Session Management data
4. Session IDs
// these are not executable, but if this info is accessed by someone else, they can pose as the victim.

--> This makes secure storage of cookies necessary

# Sidejacking / Session Hijacking

The attacker gets hold of the victim's Session ID

It can directly be used to log in and access services from a server without the Username and password.

SSL/TLS should be used when comm over networks


# Example of a Session ID attack

### Header Manipulation

1. The attacker gathers information using a service such as wireshark/Kismet. (from the network)
2. Alternatively, if the website has an XSS vuln, the server can be made to send all the session IDs directly to the attacker (without having to connect to the network)
3. Once the info the gathered, the attacker MODIFIES the headers sent in real time, using services like Tamper, Firesheep, Scapy
4. They can also modify their browser cookies to make them identical to the victim's. Using something like Cookies Manager + (is a firefox add-on)

#### Prevention

1. Always turn on encryption for all comm. IT might add some additional overhead, but the sec implications are immense.
2. Use browser extensions to force encrypted comm everywhere. Firefox exts: Force-TLS and HTTPS everywhere
3. If the server does NOT support HTTPS , then use something like an Encrypted Tunnel or Personal VPN (OpenVPN, VyprVPN, Mullwad) to at least avoid capture over LAN

