
Cross site requests are common and legitimate. 

A  cross site req is sent when a Youtube vid is embedded on a website.

HTML on the website, determines where the browser is to go to acquire the info that makes up that page. It is normal and expected.

When doing things like these, the website visitor is not required to be signed into the service (like youtube) that the website is pulling from. 
Most of these are  unauthenticated requests.


# Cross Site Request Forgery 

aka XSRF/ CSRF (sea surf)

Takes adv of the trust that a web app has for the user

1. web site trusts your browser
2. The attacker makes your computer make a req on their behalf 
3. The req are made without the victim's consent or knowledge
4. something like the attacker posting a FB status on your account occurs

// Occur due to web app dev oversight

app should have  anti forgery techniques added

Usually a crypto token is used to prevent forgery


Attacker --> Victim --- relays the attackers req from  their machine (already logged in) ---> Server


# SSRF Server Side Request Forgery

Attacker finds a vuln web app

Sends a loaded req to a webserver. The server then performs the req on behalf of the attacker.

Allows the attacker to access services that would be normally unavailable to users.

// These are Rare but are a HUGE sec risk
##### Prevention
Always validate user input and res
Do not allow there to be inputs that are similar to the additional internal functionalities of the server


#### Example:
Captical One SSRF breach 2019

The bank's WAF (web app firewall) was misconfigured




