Even though everything may hurt in the moment, while you chisel  your body, toughen it up and work yourself physically, the sense of achievement after is immense and sublime. I'm sure we've experienced that enough times now to ascertain how well physical exertion can cleanse the mind.

However, to not shy away from the shortcomings of the current me, we cannot do the same with mental exertion. We're prone to distraction, built to react, practiced and moulded into ships with a goal in mind, but a sporadic engine, and propellers scared to work.

The truth is, at the base of it, lies *fear*. 

The fear of failing, the fear of what comes tomorrow, the fear of breaking routine, the fear of the unknown, the fear of complete effort and utter defeat, the fear of give it my all and still falling short (pun not intended).

However, I must not be rendered destitute by this, for through the smallest steps I take, I can change, anyone can.

Trying honestly, truthfully and with reverence to thy soul and its nature, and performing every single thing with a sense of purpose - this is what changes who you are, from the inside.

And yes, you will come short, go astray, and will make mistakes as all humans do, do not judge yourself too harshly on that, but be just.

The more you try to be purposeful and sincere with our effort, and act upon it, the more it reinforces your resolve, burns into memory, and slowly becomes character.

In the physical department, you're becoming like that, surely. You hit the weights, even when you do with a hint of weakness in your mind and composure, your mind and self go on autopilot, and there you are, yet again pushing yourself to the very limit. 
And we both know that you do it for no one, but for yourself, because you have started to respect your own self enough to not let a moment of weakness take away from what you so painstakingly built.
This is who I've become, relentless.

And then, wouldn't it not be wise to carry over the same callousness to our mental efforts? The journeys of the mind are tiresome and turbulent, sometimes even more so than the physical, for me.

It is perhaps, that I attribute , rightly so, a lot of importance to the tasks of the mind, wherein, with the physical I just show up, without many expectations, other than just showing up. 

And it ties in again with what we were talking of before, *fear*.

Fear is attributed to weakness, fear is strung together with cowardice, fear is the anathema to courage. This is the prevalent narrative, and this is something that deep down below, is how I've thought as well, despite the contrary evidence in my face.

Now, however, I'm turning, I'm changing, and I am realising, fear is us being human, a feature built into us by nature. And how can it be evil, when nature instils it in you? 

Fear is a thing far removed from the clutches of good and evil. Fear is like rain, fear is like the sun, fear is always there, about something in everyone.

It is something to be embraced, and taken as a compass to steer your ship towards. Courage isn't the lack of fear as a whole, but the grit and character to rise up to the occasion despite fear. The bigger the fear, the more courage you garner, which toughens your fortitude.

I think, this quote from GSP really stuck with me, it was on an interview:

> Even though I'm scared and I'm afraid to fail, when I walk to the Octagon, I look like I'm, it's impossible for me to fail and I look very confident, like I'm going to kick ass for sure. But the truth is, deep down inside, I'm scared as hell.

Even the greatest feel fear, even the strongest are weak, even the smartest are dumb, the wisest are meek. 

Embrace it and push through.

Stay strong, peace :) 