Does a man ever get to stop being one?  I think not.

One only understands even more what it means to be a human, when in presence of another. When there is another that shoulders the burden with you, you aren't absolved of all your deeds, but rather, you must now think of things you never would've in solitude.

You become , must become, more mindful of how you jerk this weight upon your body, for it might mean instability for the other. 

And is it a bad thing? This togetherness? If what it does is introduce more variables to track, more things to aware of?

Yes, it is. 

For the weight that is lifted is far more than the strongest can muster, alone.

And as for being aware, how can you call yourself alive, if you aren't aware? Awareness is the essence of being, or at least, one of its, perhaps many, inscrutable essences. 

Sometimes, lifting these weights alone is necessary, true, for otherwise you can never get strong. But then, there comes a time, when the burdens or responsibilities you must rise up to are far bigger than your own strength. A truly wise man lifts these up with the help offered. And it is below this weight, that both the helper and the helped, when conscious and willing, get stronger, together.

And it is a thing of beauty. For as long as your weight is supported, the responsibility fulfilled, the action done, it does not matter at the end, whether you accepted help or not. 

For the child in need, it matters not who it is who helps it. For the beggar, it matters not how you procure the funds. For an animal in pain, it matters not how it survives. 

Some responsibilities require of you to be the instrument of completion.

> It is then, not selfish to ask for and accept help. In fact, it is the opposite, since, you are keeping your own self aside, to strive for a greater good, beyond you pride, beyond your immediate ego, or a measure of your ability. You are handling the responsibility, and that is what truly matters.


I beg of thee then, to think of this when you feel stuck and the time of reckoning draws near, and your view of your self-strength hinders your ability to seek a helping hand.

Be kind, and sometimes, being kind involves seeing beyond yourself and peering into the soul of another, or into the consciousness that is much above you, and him. 

Rise up and fulfil your responsibility, like a strong man. 

Stay Strong, brother.