What does it feel like to be relied upon?

Being relied upon not as a dependence, but as an assurance. Being relied upon by the people you love and are loved by. Being the one they seek in their troubles, not the one they seek because they think he is troubled?

Being relied upon by people you care for is not something that is thrust upon you, nor is it handed to you, to be taken for granted, or as a burden. 

It is an honour. It is a responsibility. It is something you have to earn.

It is something I must earn, not by promises, words or materialistic things, but by action, and by my own conduct.
Even if calls for some sort of a sacrifice, it must be made, if this reliance is to be gained.

If it is the levity of my conduct that prevents me from being relied upon, I must discard it. Be of a calm demeanour, be patient with others, and seek the humour in things, true, but being at peace internally does not mean I must jest every waking moment. 
Be not afraid of the silence, or the momentary change of the atmosphere, because as long as there is no resentment, it will adjust on its own, serene and calm.

It is not someone at peace with themselves that is always saying something funny, being a clown, it is often the opposite. We do that either to seek attention or to make others feel better, not just out of goodwill, but because we are internally torn and hurting, and we do not want the ones we love to feel the same. It is also a partial fear of silence and nothingness that scares us, at least, it is how I feel. 

"Will they go away if I am not bubbly? Will it turn into something sad if nothing else fills the void? Will the silence smother conversation forever?"
All of these stem from inside of us, and from a reluctance to accept mutual silence.

And what it shows itself as is an apparent lack of gravity and substance, which wrenches away the role of responsibility from me.

I could write more, but I must attend to things at hand. For today, the thing to remember then would just be:

> Practice silence, cultivate calmness.

Still, I do wonder how does it feel to be a cornerstone, someone reliable. I guess we must be patient, work towards what is right, and find it out eventually. 

Walk the path, brother. Stay strong.

