Why do we crave human interaction? We are social creatures, yes, but what is it that makes you feel these intense pangs of longing for another person, suddenly, out of nowhere?

I've been asking myself this question a lot recently.

I'm content with working alone, with having a little number of people, but having them close. Still, sometimes, I feel this immense loneliness, even sadness, when there is no one to talk to. 

People of the past, people of the online world, people that have been wrought away by time, circumstance, or choice. 

I think it stems, at least in my case, from the need to exert myself more. I fall into these ruts, and they make me feel worse, and I try to reach out, just to find that what I'm reaching out for is long gone. Not just emotionally, but career-wise, in terms of longing, about dreams that had to be changed, or can no longer be fulfilled.

It drains me even more, sucking the vitality out of me, leading me astray from work. And then this continues, until one day, I look back and realise a significant amount of time has passed in this mindless state. It breaks this cycle. I start working again, am rejuvenated. But little mistakes, little lapses here and there, bring it back, gradually, and I fall into this cycle again. 

On the bright side, my times for recognising that I've been slumping have reduced from months to weeks to days now. But I need to get better, for betterment is the cure for this loneliness. Betterment is the cure for all ailments of the soul. 

I think then, the quote fitting today's discussion would then be:

> Work. Work hard. For work is the medicine that your soul needs. Stay true to work and working hard, and everything else will fall into place.

There is nothing quite exhilarating like the joy one feels after one is spent, working hard on something that matters to them. Forget not the times when exertion of the body has cleared up our mind. It follows then, simply, that exertion of the mind shall lead to a cleansing of our souls. 

Clean your soul, do what needs to be done- not just because it is work, but because we need it, to exist in harmony with ourselves. 

Stay strong brother.


