Often, I find myself speaking, at length over things.

To my loved ones, it is my passion for the things and subjects at hand, for the general acquaintance, probably a bit of verbose communication, but nothing else.

For me, however, it is a sign. A sign of straying from the path. 
To err is human, and human I am. 
But to recognise the error and do nothing about it is not the right thing.

I'm grateful to have the mental faculties and self awareness to have recognised it, and now, I must work upon it and get back on the path again.

The more you speak, the more it gives power to the thoughts in your head. Speech is a gift sacred to humankind, insomuch that most of us are fortunately able to put most of our thoughts and feelings in a medium that another can understand. To make another feel the way you do, and to have them understand even a part of what one has to say, is a common but fulfilling joy.

Words, speech, sounds, they're powerful. And moving.

And move they can hearts towards sadness too. The same script, the same set of words, in a different permutation can represent the greatest joys and the worst fears. It can paint out the virtuous, and the vile. Evil and good, beauty and wickedness, stability or chaos, everything, anything can be brought to life by way of speaking.

Which makes it necessary to think before we speak. 

It's not an aberration from expressing ourselves, but rather a necessary step to make sure that the meaning does not get lost in transmission. Words hold power, even if they come from the powerless, even from the insignificant, because no one is truly powerless, truly insignificant to anyone, and is to someone, simultaneously. 

It then, becomes necessary to be intentional with what you speak, for words said in passing might, thrown away in jest, might just hit someone's armour at an unexpected angle, and cut deep. Deeper than what the person thought they would, deeper than what you thought.

And what about the ones close to you? Can I speak my mind with them, I can see you asking?
Yes, obviously. But again, the thing to remember is that we think before we speak not to reduce our authenticity, but to make sure that we in fact, *are* being ourselves.

It is, therefore, even more important to be deliberate with your speech to your loved ones, for they wear no armour with you. Trust is a beautiful thing, but it is the most beautiful things that get mangled the most. One little stain, one little touch, and on a dirty abhorrent thing, it is normal. But on a thing of beauty, it sticks out, and feels even worse, for it is so in contrast with the thing's nature.
And the ones that love you, and whom you love, with them there is trust, and trust comes at the cost of removing this armour. If not handled carefully, with the respect and thought that these people deserve, you risk nicking them with the blade that you wield through your words, and that must not be the case.

Kindness is strength, and what good is your kindness you fool, if you end up hurting the ones that care for reasons frivolous and inane?

> Speak intentionally. Not to filter out your words and create a persona, but to make sure you are saying what you truly want to. Be mindful of your behaviour, not because of societal judgement, but because you must remain true to yourself and become a good man. 
> For it is, my duty, and what good am I if I shirk away the duties that nature has bestowed upon me?

Stay strong, stay mindful and be kind brother. Important people love you, rely on you and the universe loves you in its own way. And so do I. 



