
Minimising the number of attack surfaces in hopes of minimising attack vectors and removing as many entry points as possible.

Can use guidelines from resources like : 
1. NIST
2. CIS (CEwnter for internet sec)
3. SANS (Network and Sec institute)


# Limiting Open Ports and Services

Close all unused ports except the req ones using a Firewall. 

Limit apps with broad port ranges.

Do our testing with NMAP to check what ports the apps are actually using and then configure our firewalls accordingly.

# Windows Registry

The primary configuration Database for a Windows system. Comntains all the settings for the OS configs and the App configs.
Almost everything can be configured from the registry.

Third party tools to check before and after registry settings after an app is installed

Important to take a backup of the entire registration before making cganges (to prevent breaking the system)

# Disk Encryption

Full disc encryption (ex: Bitlocker/ Filevault)

SED Self Encrypting device 
HArdware based FDE, no OS softeware needed or dependancy
Opal Storage specification for SED storage (Standard)


# OS Hardening

1. Keeping the OS updated.
2. Harden User accounts and passwords
3. Harden and limit Network access and sec
4. HAve active monitoring anti viruses and anti malware and other sec software

# Patch Management

Usually itself built into the OS.

However, auto update is not the best option, and sysadmins are necessary tocheck for pacthes after testing 

Emergency update deployment (due to zero day newfound vuln)

# Sandboxing

Limits app access scope to prevent unrelated access.

VMs are sandboxed from the other VMs and the OS.

Also, Browsers are sandboxed in Mobile devices.
Browsers have internal sandboxing as well. (iframes)



