
## Secure Coding Concepts

Testing with the QA (quality assurance team)

Vuln will eventually be found in apps,no one is above that.

Some general concepts to remember while coding:

# 1. Input validation

Normalisation --> Checking and correcting all input

Reject / correct information that doesn't follow rules

Fuzzers can be used to find holes.

#### Fuzzing

dynamic analysis/ fault injecting / syntax testing/ negative testing /robusteness testing
injecting different inputs and expecting something out of the ordinary to happen (app crash, overfliw, server errors etc)

Fuzzing tests (using fuzzing engines) are very resource intensive. 
CERT Basic Buzzing Framework by carnegie mellon (PIcoCTF guys)

# 2. Secure Cookies

Cookies with an attribute "Secure" are only sent over HTTPS by the brpwser.

Sensitive info should NOT be stored in cookies, since their storage security cannot be guarabteed.

# 3. HTTP Secure Headers

Web server restricts browser to allow certain tasks when running the service using headers.

# 4. Code Signing

Helps in confirming if the app has been modified or not (from the original author's app)

Assym,etric encryption, checks for the digital dig fromn a trusted CA

# 5. Allow lists / Deny lists

Admins configure OS/ Sec system settings to only run apps in the Allow list to operate.
Similar for Deny lists.

1. Application hashes must match with the allowed hash app
2. Application certificates can be checked to be from the trusted allowed authors
3. Paths of the applications can be pre specified. Only run apps stored in certain folders
4. Network zone specification ( services running on certain servers only)

# 6. SAST (Static App Security Testing)\

Analysing the static code and checking for vuln.

Might not find logical higher level problems, and also give false positives.

Each result must be examined by an experienced person after ti has been reported.



