
# Endpoint

The user's access / Apps and data

Endpoint security is multifaceted. This is called Defense in Depth.

### Anti-virus and Anti-malware

the same term these days as the capabilities are combined in most applications these days.

# EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response)

Using other mechanisms (other than Digital Signatures) like ML / Process Montoring to learn what a file is doing , to monitor and scan files for malware. 

EDR solutions performs Root cause nalaysis by finding and quaratining the malicious code/ software, or default the software to the last safe version on the system if avaialable.

# DLP  (Data loss Prevention)

Designed to stop sensitive data from being sent across the network in the first place. 

Often requires multiple solutions due to there existing multiple methods for leakage.

1. Endpoint lcient
2. Firewalls that can read encrypted data
3. Cloud based scanning tools /systems

# NGFW

Next Generation Firewalls

OSI application layer --> checks All data in every packet

Identifies the applicaitons that are flwoing across the networks
most have antivirus built in

Can identify the individual features running over the applications.

Also has SSL decrypt capability. 

URL filtering capacity

Aka:
1. Application layer gateway
2. Stateful mutlilayer inspection
3. Deep packet inspection

# Host Based Firewalls

Sopftware that runs on the endpoint OS itself.

Can see everything going on with the OS and blocks unknown processes before execution.

Managing these OS's Centrally is good, so that all the endpoint firewalls can be cinfugured  from one place

# HIDS /HIPS

Host Based Intrusion Detection System --> looks through Log files and changes the security settings of the system accordingly to mitigate damage

Host based Intrusion Prevention Systems --> Morew common these days. Recognises and blocks known attacks/ secures OS and app configs , validates incoming and outgoing requests. Built into EPS (endpoint protextion software)

thses systems use many techniques to identify problems and sec issues
--> Signatures. heuristics, behavioural , unencrypted data access and monitoring



