
Security professionals must research threats and threat actors.

Data about these can be pulled from:
1. Hacker group profiles
2. Attacker tools
3. Hacker communities

Decisions are best made based on this gathered intelligence. 

Some sources of info:

# OSINT

Open Source Intelligence

--> Open source, publicly available resources to scrounge. 
--> A good place to start

#### Internet
Discussion Groups / social media 
#### Gov Org info

#### Commercial data


# Closed Proprietary Intelligence

Services that offer already compiled threat info.

Threat Intelligence Services with Threat analytics and correlation across different Data sources are an example.

Closed Intelligence often makes info available in a way that it can easily be seen what threats are present. IT helps to create automated workflows for threat monitoring and identification, which in turn allows for constant threat monitoring and identification.


# Vuln Databases

A common source of threat intelligence.

Large databases that combine info coming from many different researchers, that find and report and publish the vuln.

CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) is a famous example.

--> Community managed list of vuln
--> Sponsored by DHS (US department of homeland sec) and CISA (Cybersec and Infrastructure Sec Agency)

All of the CVEs are compiled and summarised in the US NVD (National Vuln Database). Can be accessed by anyone.

NVD provides value over CVE by providing a Severity scoring for the vuln and for also listing any known Patches for the vuln. 



# Public / Private info-sharing centers

1. Public Threat intelligence //Often provide info that has been classified , but has been available by the federal gov
2. Private threat intelligence // Private orgs (like Google) with extensive resources


# CTA (Cyber Threat Alliance)

Am organisation where Members upload specifically formatted threat intelligence.
CTA scores each submission and validates across other submissions. (evaluation and validation)
Other members can extract the validated data. 

# AIS (Automated Indicator Sharing)

An automated process created by the cybersec industry to share important threat data at the speed of the internet, b/w orgs , securely.

#### STIX 
Structured Threat Information eXpression 

A standardised format to share the threat info.

Includes Motivations/abilities/capabilities and response info for the threat.


#### TAXII 
Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information

A standard format that securely shares STIX data b/w organisations.

# Dark Web Intelligence


### Dark Web

An overlay to the existing internet that requires specialised software to access it.

The overlay networks use the internet.

They include private websites.

Much info can be found using this, monitoring the hacking groups' services, monitoring dark web forums, breach and info for sale on dark web websites, etc

# IOC (Indicators of Compromise)

--> An event that indicates an intrusion

### Some common indicators:

1. Unusual amounts of network activity
2. Changes to the usual file hashing values
3. Irregular international traffic
4. Changes to DNS data
5. Uncommon Login patterns
6. Spike in read/ execution frequencies of certain files

// These are indicators that can b both legitimate but also indicate a compromise.

# Predictive Analysis

Analyse large amounts of data very quickly to find susp patterns.

Ex:
Analyse and correlate DNS queries, traffic patterns and location data with vuln been recently identified. 

This might help to predict an oncoming attack, and might help with prevention by upping some security measures or incorporating new ones acc to the emerging threats predictive behaviour.

ML algorithms are often used in such analyses because of obv reasons.

In such analysis cases, there is less emphasis on signatures, and more general indicators are the points of interest.
# Threat Maps

Give Visual Worldwide perspectives of threats and attacks ; data often pulled real-time from credible multiple sources.

ex: FireEye

# File / Code Repos

Public code repos / Github Repos

Attackers are monitoring orgs in case they mistakenly turn classified code public in which case they can easily copy the relevant files and code before it is fixed.

Potential exploits exist in this, content for phishing attacks (by closely manipulating the attack to the realest and newest standards) also exists in these repos.











