aka, Malicious Actors
> An entity responsible for an event that has an impact on the safety of another entity.

# APT

Advanced Persistent Threat

Attackers are in the network and undetected.

# Types of Threat Actors

### Insiders

People who are already in the network, legitimately.

Insiders might not have sophisticated tech knowledge, but they have organisational knowledge.
Can direct attack at the right vuln systems at the right time.

Also have extensive resources at their disposal.

### Nation States
External nation's gov security.

Have the highest levels of sophistication. Example: StuxNet

### Hacktivist

> Hacker with a purpose (political or social message.)

Often an external entity. 

Can have remarkably sophisticated attacks, and the attacks usually have a specific theme. Financial gain is often not the centrepiece. 

Funding is limited


### Script Kiddies

Focused on running pre-made scripts to gain access , without any/much detailed knowledge of what is exactly happening.

Not very sophisticated

No funding/ very limited resources

Often moved by ego

### Organised Crime

Professional criminals, with extreme sophistication.

They might have the best hacking that money can buy. As such, are usually financially motivated.

Structured and organised cohorts of brilliant minds engaging in criminal activity.

### Shadow IT

Employees working around the org's IT groups; for things are simple as ease of access.

Not always a good thing, might be creating risks.

Creates Dysfunction in the Org

### Competitors

They can also be threat actors. 

Financially motivated. Again, as large corporations, can spend a lot of money procuring the best resources and hence have a high level of spphistication

