
To be able to stop a threat you need to know about it and its existence.

Threat research is a never ending process.

Sources for threat research:

1. Vendor Websites
		know their products better than most others. 
		They're usually the quickest to patch a 0 day vuln and report it to the users.
		Usually have a dedicated cell/page for this.

2. Vuln Feeds
		NVD by NIST
		CVE data feeds : cve.mitre.org 

3. Third Party Vuln Feeds
		Can roll up all of these feeds into one, to have a consolidated and expansive view of security issues.

4. Conferences
		Researchers usually explain and present their own works and upcoming and current trends at these events.

5. Academic Journals
		Periodicals by experts. 
		Give very detailed info about the technology.
		Analyse the malware in a lot of detail.

6. RFC (Request for Comments)
		Published by ISOC (Internet SOCiety)
		Is a standard or method of doing a particular task in IT
		ISOC description is RFC 1602
		
	RFCs are not only standards documents. Some of them are experimental docs/ Best current practice documents / Standard Track and Historic Docs
	
	Many informational RFCs also analyse threats. 
		RFC 3833: DNS threat analysis
		RFC 7624: Confidentiality in the face of Pervasive Survelliance

7. Local Industry/Information Groups

8. Social Media
		Straight from the hacker teams themselves.
		The Search feature on Twitter is a useful tool combined with Keyword Monitoring

9. Automated Threat Feeds
	US dept of Homeland sec
	FBI forums
	SANS Internet Storm Center
	VirusTotal Intelligence: Google and FB correlation



# TTP (Tactics, Techniques and Procedures)

This is the information we are often looking at.

The more one understands the attacker's TTP, the better one understands an attack.





