
> A method used by the attacker to gain access to or to infiltrate the target.

A lot of effort goes into finding vulnerabilities in these vectors.

IT security professionals must spend a lot of time watching these vectors: Closing up existing ones and finding new ones.

### Direct Access Attack Vectors

Physical access makes it much easier to find a way into a system. (This is the reason why data centres are so highly secured)

Rebooting into admin mode to change critical details/ Attaching keyloggers to a system directly/ Transferring files/ Cutting power off/ Destroying the systems

--> All of these are possible with physical access

### Wireless Attack Vectors

Using default login credentials for access points. // This is why access points should be securely configured.

Rogue access points //Less secure entry points into a network. Helps to prevent installation of these in the first place.

Evil twins for man-in-the-middle attacks/on path attacks/ collection auth details.

Protocol Vuln --> ex: 2017 WPA2 KRACK

WEP and WPA 1 have vuln as well

### Email attack vectors

One of the biggest and most successful attack vectors. 

Phishing attacks/ Malware installation via message attachment/ Social Engineering Attacks , like, invoice scams

### Supply Chain Attack Vectors

Example, Target breach

### Social Media Attack Vectors

Info posted on social media can be used for User profiling and later used for resetting account passwords/access. 

### Removable Media attack vectors

Getting around the firewall

Attack required if a particular area of a network is airgapped / not available on the internet

USB devices can act as remote keyboards and /or keyloggers

Data Exfiltration , without using bandwidth and showing up on networks

### Cloud Attack Networks

Security misconfigurations might leave certain areas of data as public

Brute force attacks / phishing attacks on cloud service login creds

Orchestration Attacks for consumption of resources by new app instances is also possible.

DDoS to simply overload the services resulting in DoS are also possible.






 

