#laws_of_human_nature #lohn #human_nature #introduction_lahn

A common misconception is that everyone tends to think of their behaviour as largely conscious and under their control. We believe we're born supremely rational creatures.

To imagine and accept then, that a lot of our behaviours are *not* under our control is frightening. To understand that we have compulsions that are not in our power, is terrifying.

But it is the truth. We are not always in control of what we do.

> Coffee's Note:
> 	I believe these are "compelling", yes. But not all powerful, we are still in control, if we try hard enough.
> 	A truly strong, kind and responsible person would still do the right thing in the face of such urges and pulls. 

The collection of these forces that tug at us on the inside is what we'll call *Human Nature.*

Our actions are influenced more than we think than by the moods and emotions of those around us. We're highly susceptible to how people around us behave, subconsciously.

> Coffee's Note:
	This isn't just a loss of control, or an undesirable thing. 
	For what this means is that our behaviour can also affect others, and if we are calm and composed, or any certain way, we can steer things in the way we desire.

****
### Primal Nature

Any signs of our primitive nature and animalistic roots are frowned upon, and the idea of them residing in us vehemently rejected by most in civilised society. However, ignoring them doesn't make them go away. In fact, since we refuse to accept them, in the event when they inevitably do surface, we're left at their mercy, for we never learnt to deal with them, we were simply not ready.

The darkest impulses and petty emotions of humankind are often covered with a silk cloth stitched with threads of excuses and untrue rationalisations, in a bid to remove what is deemed unsightly from scrutiny. 
But it is under deliberate scrutiny that one learns the nature of their darker sides, and in the process, learns to accept them not as something distinct, but as a part of himself.

And what is a part of oneself, is at one's will.

And over time, the person then, learns to use these darker sides constructively, and has far greater control over them than the one who chooses to deny their existence.

****
### Impulses and Predictability

These basal, primal compulsions have another effect, and that is *predictability.*

Behavioural Psychology is an entire field built upon seeking patterns in human (and animal) behaviour, in general. However, the predictability that these impulses of human nature make one have is of a far simpler kind. 

Simply put, it makes most of us do very similar things, for the basic urges are the same, and if one has not trained himself to reign them in, the behaviour, from the smallest of things to the most significant, is almost similar.

An example is the open aggression that can be seen on social media, or online platforms in general. Even the calmest of people can have an online persona that doesn't match with their real life behaviour all that much. 

The reason is that they have little to no concrete repercussions and they now have a semblance of anonymity. And in this space, for the unaware, their nature takes over. They get to interact with their shadow sides, their darker, impolite parts, and since most have not given deliberate attention and have ignored this side for the majority of their lives, this newfound freedom, ironically, ends up making them a slave to these impulses. 

Another somewhat positive example would be looking at the need to create and join communities online. A need to "belong". A tribal, natural need to find a group to identify and ally with their thoughts.

These tendencies can combine in horrific ways if left to simmer on what seems like an environment with no repercussions, the internet. If people refuse to look inwards, and analyse critically these compulsions and impulses, while giving into them at the same time, these behaviours start bleeding into their "real" lives.

A tendency of tribality, combined with a sense of inflated ego, lack of critical thinking, misled and unchallenged self-righteousness and public display of untethered aggression, when in real life, turns to hateful mob mentality, and a general breakdown of the civility , safety and "humanity" that the people used as an excuse to refuse accepting the impulses in the first place.

However, the one that is aware and does not deny this side of himself, gets to avoid people without control, sense patterns in everyday behaviours, and also, becomes a kinder person, for he sees the ugly in the other inside himself too, and in the process becomes a lot more empathetic and able to view things from the shoes of another.

****

**Therefore, refusing and rejecting looking into our "uglier", natural sides is simply dooming ourselves to an eventual lack of control and feelings of helplessness.
Instead, accept, analyse and adapt to them, and practice recognising them and learning from them in all facets of life.
And over time, they'll be integrated as parts of you, instead of an inscrutable force that steals away control from you.
Because, you shall realise, that it is, all you.**







